---
title: "Mood — Final Part"
date: 2025-10-15T07:05:00+05:30
draft: false
tags: ["retrospection"]
author: "Aarav"
description: "Pressure buildup and release"
---


# The Iced Tea and Cookies

I was sitting at my desk when it struck me—how easily people describe moods as if they’re isolated, like islands floating alone. But that’s not how mine worked. Not really. Mine wasn’t a single island. It was a crowd of islands, some built from my own days, my own mistakes, the pressure of expectations, and some shaped by the subtle influences of everyone around me. I remembered talking to her that evening. We weren’t in a library or a classroom; the conversation had just popped up, quiet, as if it had always been there in the air between us. She tilted her head, as though reading me better than I read myself.

''Think about it like *cookies* and *iced tea*,'' she said.  

''*Cookies*? *Iced tea*?'' I frowned.  

''*Cookies* are easy. Everyone likes them. They blend in, they mix well. People get it. People enjoy it. That’s like the side of you that the world can handle. That they understand,'' she explained, smiling faintly, amused at my confusion but patient.  

''And *iced tea*?'' I asked, trying to follow.  

''That’s the side no one really notices unless they pay attention. Bitter, subtle, misunderstood. Less people appreciate it. That’s your hidden self—what you carry quietly, what society doesn’t really ask for or even wants to see,'' she said.  

I nodded slowly, still unsure if I truly understood.  

''Imagine ice cream,'' she continued, warming to her example. ''*Cookies* and cream—everyone likes it. Easy to eat, easy to share. Mint chocolate? Less people enjoy it, but that’s the real flavour if you want to taste something unique. That’s you.''  

I looked at the laptop bag on my desk. It had been lying there for weeks, ignored, silent. Dust on the corner, straps curled slightly. But right now, I imagined it observing me. It had been through late nights, early mornings, panic-filled mornings before buses, days lost to scrolling. It had been silent, faithful, and unjudging.  

''See, your *cookie* side—the one people can handle—that’s like cream on top. It makes things easier, connects with people. But you need your *iced tea* side, too. That’s what makes you… you. That’s what creates individuality. That’s what keeps you sane,'' she continued, her voice patient, almost coaxing.  

I paused. A memory floated up—last night, 2:00 AM, staring at the note on my desk about the physics backlog. The numbness, the guilt, the spiraling thoughts, the panic. That had been *iced tea*, bitter and ignored, something people rarely taste but that lingered all the same. And today, the small smiles, quiet encouragements, even her explanation—they were cream, slowly softening the bitterness.  

''So, the *iced tea* side… that’s like the part that gets misunderstood. That’s the part no one adds cream to,'' I said.  

''Yes,'' she said. ''Not everyone can, not everyone wants to. And that’s okay. It’s not for them. But it’s important. You can’t lose that side, even if it’s ignored. That’s your hidden flavour. The one that makes the whole mix… real.''  

I leaned back in my chair, watching the bag quietly. It felt like a witness to it all. My moods were layered, a mixture of all I had lived through—frustration, panic, exhaustion, guilt—plus the small reflections of people around me, subtle as cream. Some days the cream covered the bitterness, softening it. Other days, the *iced tea* surfaced sharply, bitter, misunderstood.  

''I get it,'' I said slowly. ''So… my moods are both. The build-up and the reflection. The *iced tea* and the *cookies*.''  

''Exactly,'' she said, smiling. ''Both. And one doesn’t cancel the other. One enriches the other. The bitterness makes the cream sweeter. The cream makes the bitterness tolerable.''  

I thought of today again, the spike of irritation over the leftover container, the small shift in mood I felt watching my own reaction. The cream wasn’t always obvious, but it was there—the reminder that even irritation is layered. Even frustration can be softened by subtle influences, by people we meet, by moments that pass unnoticed.  

''And that’s why you write,'' she said. ''To notice. To record. To understand. Even if no one else gets the *iced tea*, you do. And that’s what counts.''  

I nodded, slowly. Writing wasn’t about showing excellence or validation. Not about cream on top, not about what society understood. It was about noticing my *iced tea* and *cookies*, blending them on the page without pretending one didn’t exist. Without lying to myself. Without abandoning the bitter parts just because they weren’t popular.  

I glanced at the laptop bag again. It stayed still, silent. Dusty, corners curled, observing quietly. But in its silence, it felt like it understood, like it had witnessed every late-night spiral, every moment of self-observation, every small joy and tiny panic. Even my exhaustion, even the numbness.  

''You know,'' I said finally, aloud to myself, ''*Iced tea* isn’t bad. It’s… misunderstood. It’s necessary. Without it, everything else would be flat. Without it, the *cookies* wouldn’t taste the same.''  

''Exactly,'' she smiled again, softly. ''You can’t hide it. And you don’t have to. People who don’t taste it will skip over it. That’s fine. But it’s still important. That’s the real you.''  

I leaned back, letting the idea settle. My moods weren’t just random spikes of irritation or exhaustion. They were a mixture, a reflection of the build-up of everything I carried and everything I encountered. Some people added cream; some didn’t. Some noticed the *iced tea*; some ignored it. Both were real. Both mattered.  

And finally, for the first time that day, the tension in my chest eased slightly. I could breathe. Not because the *iced tea* had changed, not because the cream had magically softened the bitterness, but because I had noticed. I had acknowledged both sides. The *cookies*, the cream, the *iced tea*, the bitter edges.  

I opened my laptop. The bag lay next to it, silent but patient. The blank page stared back at me. And for the first time, I felt ready to write. Not for validation, not for approval, not for anyone else—just to pour the *iced tea* and *cookies* onto the page, together, without apology.  

And somehow, that felt like enough.
